---
layout: archive
permalink: /GSoC2020/
title: "Google Summer of Code 2020 - Ideas"
author_profile: true
---

[Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/) is a global program focused on bringing more student developers into open source software development. Students work with an open source organization on a 3-month programming project during their break from school.

If you want to develop Open Source, have a real experience with software projects, and wants to help people that want to join Open Source, join us! If you are a student, and is motivated, come! Do not worry if you do not have developed open source  before. We will guide you towards the process and technology. We strongly recommend to have a prior contact with our team via slack or e-mail so we can introduce you to our tools and projects. 

We are  looking for students who want to learn, help, and have good coding skills. One important thing here is: you must be willing to contribute and learn about open source and its aspects.

### How to Apply

Your application needs to cover four important aspects: (i) identify the goals of your projects and ideas to develop it; (ii)  convince us that you are the right student to do that; (iii) indicate a high-level schedule comprising the 12 weeks of GSoC (including learning outcomes and deliverables); and (iv) show how your project can be expanded or maintained after GSoC is over.

We welcome applications that build upon our initial ideas, but also welcome **new ideas** related to the tools that we develop and the goal of our lab. Go ahead and learn about what we do, and focus on selling your ideas

The application process is the opportunity to introduce yourself, show your skills and motivations, and to understand how you will get involved and will get the task done. Showing that you spent time understanding the tasks and the strategies to overcome the problems presented is recommended. We do not expect the applications to be perfect, or conceived by the applicant only. We want to explore the ideas and potentials. The goal is to have a win-win relationship, with outcomes for the project and outstanding learning opportunities for the students.

It is perfectly fine to ask for ideas and to discuss with our team in our mailing lists. However, do not expect us to review your application before the submission. We can discsuss ideas.

Join our mailing list: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!aboutgroup/nau-osl
and our Slack channel

## Our IDEAS
### Browser plugin to make GitHub more newcomer friendly

The idea behind this proposal is to provide client-side changes to GitHub user interface so that it adjusts to the newcomer cognitive-style. This is a new project and the student is expected to have high amount of interaction with the team to understand the requirements and needs. It will be necessary to add information, changed UI aspects and create different modes (which will change the UI in different ways).
A starting point would be understanding another plugins with similar goals (e.g., https://github.com/softvar/enhanced-github).

The student is expected to have know JavaScript, CSS, and HTML. Understanding GitHub flow (fork-pull request) is recommended.
Difficulty: Medium

### Automatically feed FLOSScoach with data collected from OSS projects documentation (Doc4Newcomers)

FLOSScoach is currently manually fed, which does not incentivize people to add and maintains project information in the platform. Any change in the project documentation (new pages, new structure, different communication means) need to be manually updated on FLOSScoach

The project Doc4Newcomers aims to classify the content of documentation available in README and CONTRIBUTING markdown files on GitHub categorizing them according to newcomers' needs. For this proposal, the goal is to get the outputs of Doc4Newcomers and map to the structure proposed on FLOSScoach, adding documentation automatically. This is a first step towards creating a tool to make documentation structured in newcomer-friendly way. A stretch for this project is to constantly map the information in the source (CONTRIBUTING and README) and automatically update it whenever necessary.

The student is expected to know Python, SQL, a little of machine learning. Ruby on Rails and MarkDown are recommended. 
Difficulty: Medium


## NewcomerBot

Create a bot that consumes information from FLOSScoach and interacts with newcomers in a conversational way with the users. FLOSScoach is implemented following a flow that guides newcomers from the moment they choose the project until they have their contribution submitted. The idea behind this proposal, is to create a chatbot on Slack that will guide the newcomers. The database used to provide the information is shared with FLOSScoach.

The student needs to have knowledge on Slack messaging API and on any framework that integrates with Slack (Microsoft Bot Framework, Dialogflow, Botkit). Since we will be using data stored in a relational database, it is required that the student have some know-how on that too,



### Infrastructure to intermediate the interaction between Open Source Research projects and students/instructors

Idea of creating a repository for PIs to add their projects that need technical people.
This repo would help instructors teaching Open Source courses and students taking these courses. Instructors and students often 
struggle to find projects to contribute as part of their coursework. By providing such kind of repository, 
students would be offering their contributions to benefit already existing research software projects that need 
sofwtare development expertise. The projects, would offer support related to the business domain, guiding the newcomers.
This ultimately is a win-win interaction, which may strongly affect the research projects' sustainability, and will
help students to build a strong portfolio, and put them in touch with research teams.


### Bug fixing for FLOSScoach

FLOSScoach has many open issues (http://www.gitlab.com/flosscoach/flosscoach/issues). Working on them may be a really interesting project. Moreover, navigating on [FLOSScoach](www.flosscoach.com) and opening issues that may become your project is also a great way to be part of our GSoC team.
